---
postid: 6759
parentid: 0
title: On the up
date: 2015-05-15T09:29:07+00:00
author: Lindsay
layout: post
guid: http://www.derekandlindsay.co.uk/?p=6759
page-order: 0
permalink: /2015/05/15/on-the-up/
page-slug: on-the-up
category-slug: inkie
categories:
  - 'Inkie &amp; Cubbie'
---
I am absolutely delighted to say Inkie has been recovering from her tummy upset in leaps an bounds - sometimes quite literally :-). It started with her personality returning, she has became much more active again, and wants lots of cuddles and fuss. She was even pleased to see Cubbie when he went up to her for some reassurance. Fortunately he is being very gentle with Inkie, sometimes with the size difference between the two he can send her flying when they play, he doesn't mean to, but he doesn't realise his own strength and size.

Fern, on the other hand is not being so understanding, and wants her playful friend back now! Our bunny has always been full of personality (as we call it, you may say bossy), but she went up to Inkie and wasn't very impressed with Inkie's lack of energy, so she growled at our poorly little cat and pulled a tuft of fur out too! Inkie was okay, but it shows just how much our critters love each other and miss their silly games together. As Inkie picks up though things are getting much better, and Fern is getting the attention she enjoys from Inkie.

Inkie's appetite is returning too, though as Derek found out her tummy is still very delicate. He accidentally gave her a bit of Whiskers wet cat food, rather than her special bland food, and it didn't sit well in her tummy. Fortunately there were no long term upsets, and we are making sure to give her the right food until she is 100% better.

{% include vimeovideo.html videoid="128053604" %}