---
postid: 10244
parentid: 0
title: A big shock
date: 2021-10-03T10:10:12+00:00
author: Lindsay
layout: post
guid: http://www.derekandlindsay.co.uk/?p=10244
page-order: 0
permalink: /2021/10/03/a-big-shock-2/
page-slug: a-big-shock-2
category-slug: pip-roo
categories:
  - 'Pip &amp; Roo'
---
I am very sad and shocked to say our funny little guy Roo passed away suddenly on Thursday morning. It's been a few days now but with the added sadness of losing two of our sweet rats we are really struggling to come to terms with everything.

About a week ago Roo did look a little off and he slipped when tying to get into the dust bath. The fall didn't hurt him, its not that high, but he did seem a little unbalanced. It was nothing you could put your finger on. Both boys have lost a bit of weight, but they are getting on in years and not as active as they once were so it didn't seem anything to worry about.

After his tumble Roo picked himself up and ran around the room a bit, hopped back in his cage and was more than ready for some bedtime treats. The next day he seemed okay, a bit tired but active and happy. When it comes to sensitive little animals like the degus, we don't like to just rush them to the vet. For one there's not always a lot they can do for small animals, and taking them out in the car can be very upsetting. So we decided to wait and see how he went and everything was almost back to normal with Roo. {% include captionedimage.html align="aligncenter" width="940" caption="Roo and Derek" class="size-full wp-image-10250" title="Our sweet degu, Roo, on Derek's knee" src="/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/post_7485.jpg" alt="Roo and Derek" height="587" %} 

That was until Thursday morning. When we saw him first thing that morning he seemed okay, but as we were having breakfast he fell out of his wheel, then he tumbled off the log platform underneath it. This is not a small platform and in his youth Roo could leap in and out of his wheel onto this platform like he was flying. It was very impressive and fun to see, but this was not Roo playing. From the platform it is quite a long drop straight down, there is a safe way to climb down, but with a fall it is a scary drop for a little animal. We rushed straight to Roo's aid and he looked very dazed, as you'd expect, but we could also see there was something very wrong. He didn't look like his normal alert and rather mischievous self.

{% include captionedimage.html align="alignright" width="390" caption="Our scruffy little Roo" class="size-full wp-image-10284" title="Our degu, Roo, sitting in the entrance to his cage" src="/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/psot_7483.jpg" alt="Our scruffy little Roo" height="419" %}It was still early so the first thing we did was remove all the toys and platforms from the upper section of his cage, including his wheel. Thinking if there was nothing there he wouldn't try to climb or jump up high. Roo didn't care what we were doing which was very upsetting.

Once his cage was done it was late enough that the vets were open, so we called them straightaway. We got him an appointment and all we could do was wait. Sadly an hour after his first fall, I heard a commotion from the dining room where the degus live. I rushed in to find Roo climbing on his wooden house and jumping off, as if to find the platforms we'd removed. My first reaction was to pick him up and stop him hurting himself, which of course was a mistake. Roo was already confused so the poor mite bit me, twice. I popped him back in his cage and rushed to get a towel from the kitchen. By the time I got back he was flat on the floor and I could see he was slipping away. Wrapping him the towel I took him upstairs to Derek, so we could both be with him in his last moments.

Honestly it was a terrible shock, and still is hard to process. Our dinning room seems so empty without his huge cage and the noise of his wheel going round. He wasn't as vocal as Pip, but he did have moments when he'd just chirp away to himself rather quietly and if you talked to him he'd come to the bars as if to listen to you. Roo wasn't the most active boy at playtime, usually choosing to run straight for a bath and them jump on Derek's knee hoping for a treat for being a good boy. He didn't like fuss either, though we did have a silly game of trying to fuss him whenever he jumped on our knees. Roo didn't mind as long as he got his treats.

We have no idea how Roo's absence will affect Pip. They haven't lived together for years, but we always kept their cages close incase they ever mellowed and showed an interest in each other. It didn't happen, but the sound of Roo playing and wittering to himself must have been an important part of Pip's life. {% include captionedimage.html align="aligncenter" width="940" caption="Pip enjoying some fuss" class="size-full wp-image-10266" title="Our degu, Pip, enjoying a cheek rub" src="/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/post_7549.jpg" alt="Pip enjoying some fuss" height="509" %} 

So far Pip looks as content as always. He has his medicine every night, so it gives us a good opportunity to hold him, which he does not appreciate, and check him over. Having to catch Pip is a silly game he plays with us where he likes to be evasive before he'll surrender to being picked up. Unfortunately he's not the sort of boy to appreciate more attention from us. He doesn't want to come out to play more than twice a day and if we pop in the dining room other than meal times or playtime he'll usually tell us off for disturbing him. He does have four cats wandering around the house now and unlike with Derek and I he seems to enjoy their unannounced visits to the dining room.