---
postid: 9678
parentid: 0
title: Oh Topaz
date: 2021-01-25T10:41:30+00:00
author: Lindsay
layout: post
guid: http://www.derekandlindsay.co.uk/?p=9678
page-order: 0
permalink: /2021/01/25/oh-topaz/
page-slug: oh-topaz
category-slug: sapphire-ruby-topaz-opal
categories:
  - 'Sapphire, Ruby, Topaz &amp; Opal'
---
Not the greatest news I'm afraid, our cheeky little Topaz has had another lump. This time it was under her armpit. We noticed it over Christmas and in spite of our normal one surgery rule, we decided to get it removed. Topaz was so very young when she had her first surgery, it seemed cruel to hold a rule that was decided for older rats against her.

She had the surgery on the 11th, a few weeks ago. It was a very scary time, Topaz was quite down after her surgery, though she is picking up now. Her wound healed up nicely, and she didn't play with it like last time, but she didn't bounce back as quickly as we'd have hoped. It was a very expensive surgery, so I'm guessing it was more complicated, and maybe being under anaesthetic for longer has made everything worse for our little girl. Whatever is going on we've been extra caring for Topaz, making sure her sisters don't steal her treats and giving her a little bit extra. {% include captionedimage.html align="aligncenter" width="940" caption="Topaz showing off her shaved side" class="size-full wp-image-9701" title="Our sweet rat, Topaz enjoying some milkshake" src="/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/post_9695.jpg" alt="Topaz showing off her shaved side" height="705" %} 

We are aware that the chances of another tumour are scarily high now with Topaz, but all we can do is wait and see. Obviously we won't put her through another surgery, especially after this one was so hard on her. So, we're going to be positive and hope that she's okay and gets to enjoy a long and happy life with her sisters.